.TH LIFEREA "1" "Nov 24, 2021"
.SH NAME
Liferea \- GTK desktop news aggregator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B liferea
.RI [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLiferea\fP (Linux Feed Reader) is an aggregator for online
news feeds.  It can be used to maintain a list of subscribed feeds,
browse and search through their items and displays their contents.
Additionally Liferea allows one to sync subscriptions and read
headlines with online accounts of TinyTinyRSS and TheOldReader.
.SH OPTIONS
Liferea options:
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display a option overview and exit.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add\-feed=\fIURI\fR
Add a new subscription URI which can be a feed or website URL.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-mainwindow\-state=\fISTATE\fR
Start Liferea with its mainwindow in STATE: shown, hidden.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-disable\-plugins
Start with all plugins disabled.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-all
Print debugging messages of all types.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-cache
Print debugging messages for the cache handling.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-conf
Print debugging messages of the configuration handling.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-db
Print debugging messages of the configuration handling.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-gui
Print debugging messages of all GUI functions.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-html
Enables HTML rendering debugging. Each time Liferea
renders HTML output it will also dump the generated
HTML into $XDG_CACHE_DIR/liferea/output.html.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-net
Print debugging messages of all network activities and display the
HTTP/S User-Agent string.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-parsing
Print debugging messages of all parsing functions.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-performance
Print debugging messages when a function takes too long to process.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-trace
Print debugging messages when entering/leaving functions.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-update
Print debugging messages of the feed update processing.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-vfolder
Print debugging messages of the search folder matching.
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-verbose
Print verbose debugging messages.

.SH DBUS INTERFACE
To allow integration with other programs \fBLiferea\fP provides a DBUS
interface for automatic creation of new subscriptions. The script
\fBliferea-add-feed\fP is a convenient way to use this interface. Just
pass a valid feed URL as parameter and the feed will be added to the
feed list. You can also pass non-feed URLs to use feed auto discovery.
See the EXAMPLES section.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B http_proxy (for HTTP connections)
.RE
.B https_proxy (for HTTPS connections)
.RS
If defined and a proxy is not specified in the \fBLiferea\fP preferences (which
uses the proxy settings provided by dconf), their value will be used as proxy
URIs. Both are used by many common CLI tools, so make sure to export them in a
dedicated subshell.
.RE
.TP
.B LIFEREA_FEED_CMD_TIMEOUT
.RS
If defined, overrides the default timeout for feed generating commands with
the number of seconds given in this variable. It must be an integer value
greater than zero; invalid values will be ignored.
.RE
.TP
.B LIFEREA_UA_ANONYMOUS
If defined, randomizes and anonymizes the default HTTP/S User-Agent string.
.RB
.TP
.B LIFEREA_UA
If defined, its value replaces the default HTTP/S User-Agent string.
.RB
.LP
LIFEREA_UA has always precedence over LIFEREA_UA_ANONYMOUS, so the latter can
be safely defined in global shell initialization files.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.nf
$ http_proxy="http://proxy.example.com:3128" liferea
.fi
.RE
.nf
$ http_proxy="http://username:password@proxy.example.com:3128" liferea
.fi
.RS
Will alter each outgoing request to use proxy.example.com on port 3128 as
proxy. If DNS resolution does not work, an IP address can be used instead.
.RE
.TP
.nf
$ LIFEREA_UA_ANONYMOUS=1 liferea --debug-net
.fi
Will alter each outgoing HTTP/S request to randomize \fBLiferea\fP's version and
hide the operative system in use.
In addition, prints the HTTP/S User-Agent and all outgoing network requests.
.RB
.TP
.nf
$ LIFEREA_UA="Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:10.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/10.0" liferea
.fi
Will alter each outgoing HTTP/S request to pose as Firefox on Linux.
.RB
.TP
.nf
$ liferea-add-feed "feed:https://www.example.com/feed.rss"
.fi
.RE
.nf
$ liferea --add-feed "https://www.example.com/feed.rss"
.fi
.RS
Subscribe to "example.com/feed.rss". Remember to supply a valid and correctly
escaped feed URL as parameter. Please note that \fBLiferea\fP needs to be
running for \fBliferea-add-feed\fP to work.
.RB

.SH FILES
.TP
$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/liferea/feedlist.opml
Contains the current list of subscriptions.
.TP
$XDG_CONFIG_DIR/liferea/liferea.css
Stylesheet that can be used to override default HTML style.
.TP
$XDG_DATA_DIR/liferea/liferea.db
SQLite3 database with all subscriptions and headlines.
.TP
$XDG_DATA_DIR/liferea/plugins/
User-installed plugins are stored here. You can either manually
put plugins here or use the plugin installer in Liferea.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Lars Windolf <lars.windolf@gmx.de>.

Updated on Nov 24, 2021 by Lorenzo L. Ancora <admin@lorenzoancora.info>.
